feat: Create System Events ADR (#795)
edgexfoundry/edgex-docs: docs_src/design/adr/0024-system-events.md

#### Data Transfer Object (DTO)

This new `SystemEvent` DTO will contain the following data describing the System Event:

- Source - i.e core-metadata as the publisher
- Type - i.e. device
- Action - i.e. add/update/delete
- Timestamp - Creation date/time for the System Event
- Owner - i.e device-onvif-camera as the device owner
    - Optional based on the Type
- Tags - i.e. device-profile=onvif-camera
    - Optional based on the Type needs
- Details - i.e. Device DTO of newly added device or empty for Delete action.
    - Optional object which varies based on the Type and or Action. 
    - This an object similar to `ObjectValue` in `Reading` DTO

!!! note
    As defined, this DTO should suffice for future System Event use cases.  

#### MessageBus 

Services that publish System Events (Core Metadata) must connect to the EdgeX MessageBus and have MessageBus configuration similar to that of Core Data's [here](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-go/blob/main/cmd/core-data/res/configuration.toml#L53-L74). This design assumes that Core Metadata will have this capability and configuration due to planned implementation of Service Metrics. 

> For this design, the `publish topic prefix` for System Events will be a constant in the code rather than another configuration item that never changes.

Author: In non-secure mode, nothing stops you from sharing the broker, but in secure mode external clients will not have the credentials. We also have our custom wrapped messages that external clients will not understand. This is the reason why the North South message bus ADR calls out an external MQTT connection for Core command, which then bridges the request to the internal EdgeX MessageBus. 

No there isn't any specific documentation on the the EdgeX MessageBus which is a major missing section of our documentation.

> For this design, the `publish topic prefix` for System Events will be a constant in the code rather than another configuration item that never changes.

Author: I have submitted this issue for the lack of MessageBus documentation.
https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-go/issues/4098

> For this design, the `publish topic prefix` for System Events will be a constant in the code rather than another configuration item that never changes.

Reviewer: Ok, thanks.

> For this design, the `publish topic prefix` for System Events will be a constant in the code rather than another configuration item that never changes.

Reviewer: I just found some time to carefully read the issue but unfortunately still disagree. I have commented on the issue and think the prefix needs to be configurable. Your comment about clients not having access to credentials is only valid for the basic Redis setup that we currently have. 

If this is the only place where we are hardcoding a prefix, then this ADR is adding an architectural change beyond its scope.

I respectfully ask making this configurable in this ADR and then coming up with another ADR to discuss and globally enforce use of dedicated brokers per EdgeX instances.

I had another comment:
> Also, "another configuration item that never changes" needs a reference or example. Or replace "another" with "a".

> For this design, the `publish topic prefix` for System Events will be a constant in the code rather than another configuration item that never changes.

Author: > If this is the only place where we are hardcoding a prefix, then this ADR is adding an architectural change beyond its scope.
> 

Ok, I agree with you on point. I will update the ADR to specify using configuration for the  topic prefix.

#### MessageBus Topic

The new `SystemEvent` DTO will be published to a multi-level topic allowing subscribers to filter by topic. The format of this topic for `Device System Events` will be:

​		`edgex/system-event/{source}/{type}/{action}/{owner}/{profile}`

where 

- `{source}` = core-metadata
- `{type}` = device
- `{action}` = add, update or delete
- `{owner}` = `<device service name>`
- `{profile}` = `<device profile name>`

> This multi-level topic scheme allows consuming services to filter which System Events they receive base of the topic that is subscribed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This multi-level topic scheme allows consuming services to filter which System Events they receive based on the topic that is subscribed.
```

!!! example - "Example - System Event subscription topics"
    ```
    edgex/system-event/# - All system events
    edgex/system-event/core-metadata/# - only system events from Core Metadata
    edgex/system-event/core-metadata/device/# - only device system events from Core Metadata
    edgex/system-event/core-metadata/device/add/device-onvif-camera/# - only add device system events for device-onvif-camera

>     edgex/system-event/core-metadata/device/#/#/onvif-camera - only device system events for devices created for the onvif-camera device profile

Author: That is only for MQTT, this is correct for using Redis.

    ```

!!! note

>     The `owner` is optional based on the `Type` and may not be meaningful in some future use cases. The `profile` is specific to the [System Events for Devices](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.3/design/ucr/0001-System-Events-for-Devices/) use case. Future cases may omit these and/or add use case specific items as appropriate to the publish topic.

Author: Each use case can have it's specified scheme beyond the required elements.

>     The `owner` is optional based on the `Type` and may not be meaningful in some future use cases. The `profile` is specific to the [System Events for Devices](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.3/design/ucr/0001-System-Events-for-Devices/) use case. Future cases may omit these and/or add use case specific items as appropriate to the publish topic.

Reviewer 2: Yes, good to state this freedom for future event types.

>     The `owner` is optional based on the `Type` and may not be meaningful in some future use cases. The `profile` is specific to the [System Events for Devices](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.3/design/ucr/0001-System-Events-for-Devices/) use case. Future cases may omit these and/or add use case specific items as appropriate to the publish topic.

Author: Restructured this section to make it clear that there is a base set of levels for all System Events and Device System Events has additional levels.

- Write custom pipeline function that expects the new `SystemEvent` DTO and process it accordingly.  Similar to how the [ToLineProtocol](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.2/microservices/application/BuiltIn/#tolineprotocol) pipeline function expects the Metric DTO.

### Services/Modules impacted

- Core Metadata service
    - This service is the single point for device Add/Update/Delete and will be the producer of Device System Events.
- Core Contracts module
    - The new `SystemEvent` DTO will be added to this repository
- Camera Management App Service Example
    - Once Device System Event are implemented, the [Camera Management](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-examples/tree/main/application-services/custom/camera-management) example can be updated to consume the new Device System Events.
- Device SDK/Service (future)
    - Once Device System Events is implemented, the Device SDKs can switch to receiving these `Device System Events` via MesssageBus rather than the REST callbacks from Core Metadata. Beyond recognizing this future enhancement, it is out-of-scope for this ADR.

## Considerations

> - This design approach can be used for future use cases, such as `System Events for Device Profiles` and `System Events for Device Services` when/if they are deemed needed.

Author: Personal preference.

> - This design approach can be used for future use cases, such as `System Events for Device Profiles` and `System Events for Device Services` when/if they are deemed needed.

Reviewer: Personal preference doesn't apply here. Backquote is to format code, is converted to [html `<code>` tag](https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_code.asp), and processed by accessibility tools as such. The reader may misunderstand that as a keyword defined in this ADR.

Misusing it for quoting or highlighting is not right. You can use bold, italic, or double quotes.

> - This design approach can be used for future use cases, such as `System Events for Device Profiles` and `System Events for Device Services` when/if they are deemed needed.

Author: The Backquote is a markdown control character, which highlights the text like this.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/44779287/180071785-6ad8645f-96d3-4264-86b1-34c027f05b3d.png)

> - This design approach can be used for future use cases, such as `System Events for Device Profiles` and `System Events for Device Services` when/if they are deemed needed.

Author: Sorry, if you don't agree with using the back tick in this way, but I don't see an issue with it. We do this in many places in our documentation to highlight portions.

> - This design approach can be used for future use cases, such as `System Events for Device Profiles` and `System Events for Device Services` when/if they are deemed needed.

Reviewer: It is really not about whether I agree with it or not. That syntax is for code, not quotation, and any such use is simply wrong. Erroneous use in the past doesn't justify its use in new documents. 
https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#code

Anyway I see it has been done in a few places in the ADR so we may let this slide too. Maybe at some point we can fix all instances in the docs.

> -  Another design approach that was considered is to use Support Notifications to send the System Events via REST. This would require consumers to create subscriptions to receive the Systems Events via REST to some endpoint on the consuming service. This subscription would be created using the existing Support Notifications [subscription](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/EdgeXFoundry1/support-notifications/2.2.0#/default/post_subscription) REST API. Likely each subscription would be for a specific Event Type. System Events would be Published by POSTing them to Support Notification [notification](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/EdgeXFoundry1/support-notifications/2.2.0#/default/post_notification) REST API, which would them forward them via REST POST to each service subscribed to the particular System Event. The System Event DTO would still be used, just sent via the REST. This approach is more complex, requires consumer services to have new REST endpoint(s) to receive the System Events and relies on REST rather than messaging, thus this approach was not chosen.

Author: I consistently use REST since we implement RESTful API of HTTP.

> -  Another design approach that was considered is to use Support Notifications to send the System Events via REST. This would require consumers to create subscriptions to receive the Systems Events via REST to some endpoint on the consuming service. This subscription would be created using the existing Support Notifications [subscription](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/EdgeXFoundry1/support-notifications/2.2.0#/default/post_subscription) REST API. Likely each subscription would be for a specific Event Type. System Events would be Published by POSTing them to Support Notification [notification](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/EdgeXFoundry1/support-notifications/2.2.0#/default/post_notification) REST API, which would them forward them via REST POST to each service subscribed to the particular System Event. The System Event DTO would still be used, just sent via the REST. This approach is more complex, requires consumer services to have new REST endpoint(s) to receive the System Events and relies on REST rather than messaging, thus this approach was not chosen.

Reviewer: Ok. But POST is not a REST method. It's an HTTP method. REST and HTTP are not interchangeable. 

You can very well implement REST APIs with a protocol such as CoAP.

## Decision

> This design will satisfy the  [System Events for Devices ](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.3/design/ucr/0001-System-Events-for-Devices/) use case as well as most future System Event use cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This design will satisfy the  [System Events for Devices](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.3/design/ucr/0001-System-Events-for-Devices/) use case as well as most future System Event use cases.
```

Author: > This is a vague statement for a decision made, in an ADR. We can't claim that without having more than 1 System Even use case.

Hence why I said `most`.

Reviewer: We can't know what future use cases need to confidently state that this ADR covers what most of them need. You could say "possibly other future use cases".

Author: Sure, I can change it to `possibly other future use cases`

## Proposed Design
To address the [System Events for Devices ](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.3/design/ucr/0001-System-Events-for-Devices/) use case, Core Metadata will publish a new `SystemEvent` DTO to the EdgeX MessageBus when a device is added, updated or deleted. Consumers of these System Events will subscribe to the MessageBus to receive the new `SystemEvent` DTO .

#### Data Transfer Object (DTO)

This new `SystemEvent` DTO will contain the following data describing the System Event:

- Event Type - i.e. device
- Event Action - i.e. add/update/delete
- Event Source - i.e core-metadata as the publisher
- Event Owner - i.e device-onvif-camera as the device owner
    - Optional based on the Event Type
- Event Other- i.e. onvif-camera (profile name)
    - Optional based on the Event Type
- Event Details - i.e. Device DTO of newly added device or empty for Delete action.

>     - Optional and varies based on the Event Type and or Event Action. 

Reviewer 3: We had better add a field whose type is an extendable map structure (`map[string]interface` in golang, for example).
It can be Event Other or Event Details, or we can add an Event Props or Event Attrs for this field.  All the naming is fine with me.

Reviewer 3: The timestamp is also important here, so we need a field for that.

Author: Good catch on the `timestamp` . Will add.
I am trying to stay away (as much as possible) from implementation details such as data types (i.e. map[string]interface). That said I also struggled with Event Other. Maybe Event Tags, which infers a collection of Key/Value pairs?
For `Event Details` I think `varies based on` infers type is `any` (aka interface{}), but will add clarification.

Author: Added and reworked

#### MessageBus 

Services that publish System Events (Core Metadata) must connect to the EdgeX MessageBus and have MessageBus configuration similar to that of Core Data's [here](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-go/blob/main/cmd/core-data/res/configuration.toml#L53-L74). This design assumes that Core Metadata will have this capability and configuration due to planned implementation of Service Metrics. 

For this design, the `publish topic prefix` for System Events will be a constant in the code rather than another configuration item that never changes.

#### MessageBus Topic

The new `SystemEvent` DTO will be published to a multi-level topic allowing subscribers to filter by topic. The format of this topic for Device System Events will be:

> ​		`edgex/system-event/{event-type}/{event-action}/{event-source}/{event-owner}/{event-other}`

Author: `Event Source` is what you are calling `Event Sender`. I agree that the order you have is better.

`edgex/system-event/{event-source}/{event-type}/{event-action}//{event-owner}/{event-other}`

so for Device System Events ONVIF Add example it would be:
`edgex/system-event/core-metadata/device/add/device-onvif-camera/onvif-camera`

> ​		`edgex/system-event/{event-type}/{event-action}/{event-source}/{event-owner}/{event-other}`

Author: Reworked

- Set the Target Type to `&dtos.SystemEvent{}`when creating instance of `ApplicationService` using the [NewAppServiceWithTargetType](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.2/microservices/application/ApplicationServiceAPI/#newappservicewithtargettype) factory function.
- Write custom pipeline function that expects the new `SystemEvent` DTO and process it accordingly.  Similar to how the [ToLineProtocol](https://docs.edgexfoundry.org/2.2/microservices/application/BuiltIn/#tolineprotocol) pipeline function expects the Metric DTO.

### Services/Modules impacted

- Core Metadata service
    - This service is the single point for device Add/Update/Delete and will be the producer of Device System Events.
- Core Contracts module
    - The new `SystemEvent` DTO will be added to this repository
- Camera Management App Service Example

>     - Once Device System Event are implemented, the [Camera Management](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-examples/tree/main/application-services/custom/camera-management) example can be updated to consume the new Device System Events.

Reviewer 3: Add Device Service to the impacted list, because this approach should replace the normal REST callback in the future

Author: Excellent point! Will add.

Services that publish System Events (Core Metadata) must connect to the EdgeX MessageBus and have MessageBus configuration similar to that of Core Data's [here](https://github.com/edgexfoundry/edgex-go/blob/v2.2.0/cmd/core-data/res/configuration.toml#L53-L74). This design assumes that Core Metadata will have this capability and configuration due to planned implementation of Service Metrics. 

The `PublishTopicPrefix` property in Core Metadata's `MessageQueue` configuration will be used for System Events and set to `edgex/system-event`.

#### MessageBus Topic

The new `SystemEvent` DTO will be published to a multi-level topic allowing subscribers to filter by topic. The format of this topic for **System Events** will be:

> ​		`edgex/system-event/{source}/{type}/{action}`

Reviewer 2: Would it more properly be `{PublishTopicPrefix}/{source}/{type}/{action}` ?

Author: Sure.
